hey what's up this is may eight 2060
this is the voice of a guy his first
name is ISIL his last name is bizarre
you probably know me from my youtube
channel which is called a palace yet
Mike asks could you discuss what you
have found are the pieces necessary for
a movement to have success you have
talked about things that won't work on
their own and you have talked about how
political influence at all levels is
important but pain political influence
create success on its own what are the
critical parts okay close quote end of
question so obviously this could be a
one hour monologue in response to this
given my background of my interest in
life to give a somewhat limited
reflection in just two parts one the
most successful political movements are
the most invisible so in this I
mentioned you know in a recent video
Mothers Against Drunk Driving the
campaigns to address and indeed demonize
you know drunk driving like
scientifically it's actually possible
for a person to drink alcohol and drive
a car and a completely responsible and
safe way politically that's an
inconvenient fact but we have set up
laws that make it completely illegal for
anyone to drink alcohol in drive a car
and I agree with that I mean that's the
only way you can you have to have a law
that applies to everyone equally you
can't have a law that says well if
you're really good at driving drunk will
let you do it um but you know over a
period of decades the the Crusades
against drunk driving and the Crusades
to really kind of limit the culture of
alcohol have been very very successful
and they're also largely invisible now
at the at the opposite extreme another
example a tox barista video is the
question of the conspiracy for who
killed JFK this type of conspiratorial
movement for political change and of
course lobbies that are paid for by
industries would have you there are many
political movements
in this sense also are invisible why do
I mention this well for one thing the
success of mothers against drunk driving
is not unique they don't have any
special advantages their methods and
their successes can be reproduced can be
imitated can be learned from and by
contrast some vegans want to draw
attention to the abolition of slavery
specifically the abolition of slavery in
Georgia in the United States and the
southern United States and many aspects
of that are unique and cannot be
reproduced you know the liberation of
slaves in Haiti fascinating history that
I was by myself right a great deal about
but there's no way I can say oh yeah
look at the situation for slaves in
Haiti several hundred years ago and now
obviously we could just apply these
lessons to canada in 2016 no you have to
be able to recognize when something is
comparable when it's reproducible when
it is something you can generalize about
and when really it's it's quite unique
now I mean in Haiti the revolution that
freed the slaves involved real violence
of the most gruesome kind of course
including tremendous violence by the
white people on behalf of the slave
owners but the slaves themselves you
know it was said at the time and not
without without reason the flag of the
Revolution was of a white baby impaled
on a spike because they would the slaves
would kill the slave masters and they
would routinely take a spear and you
know murder the babies murder the
infant's of the slave masters and then
march to the next town with a spear with
the dead baby at the end of it now I
mentioned this only it's incredibly gory
chapter of history but let's keep it
real when other vegans talk about using
slavery the abolition of slavery as a
model for social change for veganism is
that really what you're talking about I
don't think so I don't think at all
we're really talking about a situation
where you you want to emulate that type
of violent social change and now
obviously I mean most people who really
study that history they have mixed
sympathies because of course slavery is
bad they want to see slavery end but
they understand why the extreme violence
happened it's it's tragic but learning
from that tragedy and what lessons you
apply now especially in a democratic
society where you can go to City Hall
you can collect donations and hire a
lawyer and challenge these things in a
court of law you know the slaves in
Haiti couldn't do that you know when
there are so many positives open to us
that's really worth challenging again
whether you look at mothers against
drunk driving or any other you know
again campaigns against smoking
cigarettes to reform you know labeling
and health standards for cigarettes etc
etc those are the most successful and
and they're also the most invisible and
the culture of complaint is not really
the culture you you want to be imitating
although again as I've said earlier in
this in the same podcast I do have
sympathy with the social reasons for why
people want to organize rallies and
protests and I don't I don't regard them
as completely worthless come back to
Mike's question your part to the second
aspect that wanted to mention if you're
really sit asking the question what what
is the the critical aspect the critical
aspect is money okay the critical issue
is economic why is petta the most
powerful voice for veganism in the world
today People for the Ethical Treatment
of Animals not because they're smart not
because they're right not because
they're good at what they do because
they got money okay they pay wages they
employ people all right I hear a lot of
BS about being a full-time activist on
the Internet the employees of petta are
probably the only full-time making
activists in the world that the majority
of them how many vegan agencies can you
say employ people now you guys know if
you watched my show I don't like pedda
there are a lot of things I dislike
about them I think they're kind of dumb
and they're kind of goofy and you know
they've been on the wrong side of
history on a number of different issues
is not is not perfect most vegans of
course hate them because they kill store
animals or they hate them because they
have posters of naked women in them etc
etc but guess what at the end of the day
uh you know money talks
um you can refer to the first first of
the second question I answered where I
thought of the day that I deeply
disagree with this that in a democratic
society freedom of speech should not be
based on the ability to pay but in
answer this question that is the answer
now you've heard me say on youtube I had
this experience with the Green Party in
Canada I could also talk about my
experience with Buddhism both of those
examples what really mattered was
motivating elderly people to support you
so if you have highly motivated retired
people people older than 65 who are
giving you a hundred dollars a month so
there could be elderly Chinese people
who give money to a Buddhist temple
could be elderly white people who give
money to the Green Party whatever that
forms the economic basis for a
successful political movement that is
the brutal ugly truth nobody else is
going to tell you Mike yes you know the
foundation for a successful political
movement is financial and the foundation
for those finances in my opinion is
transparency and accountability right
and transparency does not mean democracy
so like those Chinese people when they
donate their money to the Buddhist
temple they may have no control over
what happens to that money they don't
get to vote they don't get a referendum
they don't get it they don't even get a
debate or discussion but what they will
get if it's a good Buddhist temple is a
report telling them what happened to the
money and then of course they can decide
in the next year if they want to donate
again or not they might cancel the
donation so you know okay so much money
went into repainting the roof so much
money did this so much money did that
and you know it may be a course that
some of the money is being spent to take
care of orphans to give food to starving
people actually some Buddhist temples do
animal rights stuff also to liberate
animals from cages and this kind of
thing that's that's another story that
could be a one hour discussion with
but you know you you add it all up and
you give them a list and even in the
complete absence of democracy that can
be a very powerful and meaningful thing
that's the complete answer to your
question for the purpose of this podcast
Mike obviously I could speak about it
even greater length yeah the foundation
is financial and economic the foundation
for that has to do with trust with
credibility with legitimacy and the
foundation for that in turn is
transparency and accountability that's
the essence of the thing and the most
successful movements are the most
invisible it's not the case that the
squeaky wheel gets the grease